platform and realm evidence transformations (#25)
yogeshbdeshpande/draft-cca-rats-endorsements: draft-ydb-rats-cca-endorsements.md

The CPAK public key is a SubjectPublicKeyInfo {{-pkix-x509}} using the encoding defined in {{Section 13 of -pem}}.
There MUST be only one key in an `attest-key-triple-record`.

#### CoMID Example

The example in {{ex-cca-platform-iak}} shows the CCA Endorsement of type Attestation Verification Key carrying a secp256r1 EC public CPAK associated with Instance ID `4ca3...d296`.

~~~
{::include-fold examples/platform-iak.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-cca-platform-iak title="Example CCA Platform Attestation Verification Key" }

> ### Evidence Transformations

Reviewer: We MUST state that the Evidence Transformation is required for operating a CoRIM Verifier and state the CoRIM Verifier/Processor reference here, to set the context!

Author: done in [8d4212e](https://github.com/yogeshbdeshpande/draft-cca-rats-endorsements/pull/25/commits/8d4212ed9d8b309d2aa3bb898d223cbf83529420)

This section describes the transformations required to map a CCA Platform Token to its equivalent CoRIM internal representation.

{{trans-plat}} shows the complete transformation.

#### Platform Identification

> The following function maps the CCA Implementation and Instance IDs - which, used together to provide a unique and stable identifier for the CCA platform - onto a CoRIM `environment-map`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CCA Implementation and Instance IDs are used together to provide a unique identifer for the CCA platform.
The following function maps these IDs onto a CoRIM `environment-map`.
```

~~~ pseudocode
FUNC cca_platform_id_to_env(
    inst-id: arm-platform-instance-id-type,
    impl-id: arm-platform-implementation-id-type,
) -> environment-map {
    env := environment-map::NEW()
    env.class.class-id = tagged-bytes(impl-id)
    env.instance = tagged-ueid-type(inst-id)

    RETURN env
}
~~~

> {: #trans-platform-id title="Transform CCA Platform IDs into Evironment Map" }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{: #trans-platform-id title="Transform CCA Platform IDs into Environment Map" }
```

#### Platform Configuration

The following function maps the CCA platform configuration claim to a CoRIM element map.
The element identifier is "cca.platform-config", and the element claims use the standard raw-values attribute to represent the platform configuration value as `tagged-bytes`.

~~~ pseudocode
FUNC element-from-platform-config(
    C: arm-platform-config-type
) -> element-map {
    em := element-map::NEW()

    em.element-id = tstr("cca.platform-config")

    em.element-claims.raw-values = tagged-bytes(C)

    RETURN em
}
~~~
{: #trans-plat-conf title="Transform a CCA Plaform Config into an Element Map" }

#### Platform Token

The following function maps the CCA platform's claims set to a single CoRIM `ae-item`.

The environment is synthesized from instance and implementation identifiers.
Each software component is mapped to an `element-map` entry with identifier "cca.software-component".
The platform configuration is mapped to an `element-map` entry with identifier "cca.platform-config".

The process uses the functions defined in {{trans-platform-id}}, {{trans-sw-comp}}, and {{trans-plat-conf}}.

> The process assumes that the profile of the CCA Platform claims-set is "tag:arm.com,2023:cca_platform#1.0.0".

Reviewer: is Line 389, a assumption, I think it should be a MUST ? Isn't it?

Author: No, the sentence is not an interop requirement; it just states the precondition for utilising the transform.

> The process assumes that the profile of the CCA Platform claims-set is "tag:arm.com,2023:cca_platform#1.0.0".

Reviewer 2: This profile value is out of step with specs. Current value is tag:arm.com,2024:cca_platform#2.0.0

Author: done in [6e5f99e](https://github.com/yogeshbdeshpande/draft-cca-rats-endorsements/pull/25/commits/6e5f99ec9a7883cb30cc87537f4855146c758839)

~~~
{: #ex-cca-platform-iak title="Example CCA Platform Attestation Verification Key" }

### Evidence Transformations

This section describes the transformations required to map a CCA Platform Token to its equivalent CoRIM internal representation.

{{trans-plat}} shows the complete transformation.

> #### Platform Identifiers

Reviewer 3: This section is a bit confusing. What is a "platform identifier"?  In the context of `services` (and I imagine that would generalize to any verifier) there there distinct identifiers

- trust anchor ID
- platform endorsements ID
- realm endorsements ID

All of these are mapped different, resulting in three different environments. What is described here corresponds just to trust anchor ID*

(*and as was raised in the public meeting this week -- it's not clear why both class and instance IDs are specified in the same environment -- this clashes with how CoSERV was designed).

Author: > This section is a bit confusing. What is a "platform identifier”?

As the name suggests, it identifies the “platform".  It is only applicable to the CCA Platform claims-set.  The Realm claims are not in scope.

> In the context of `services` (and I imagine that would generalize to any verifier) there there distinct identifiers
> 
> * trust anchor ID
> * platform endorsements ID
> * realm endorsements ID
> 
> All of these are mapped different, resulting in three different environments.

This transformation describes _evidence_, specifically platform evidence. While it is obviously related to endorsements (which need to match), it is not an endorsement itself.

> What is described here corresponds just to trust anchor ID*

No, what is described here is the complete platform environment, including the instance and implementation identifiers.

Reviewer 3: OK, that makes sense.

The process uses the functions defined in {{trans-platform-id}}, {{trans-sw-comp}}, and {{trans-plat-conf}}.

The process assumes that the profile of the CCA Platform claims-set is "tag:arm.com,2023:cca_platform#1.0.0".

~~~ pseudocode
FUNC transform(
    P: arm-platform-claims,
    cpak_pub: $crypto-key-type-choice
) -> ae-item {
    ASSERT::Equal(
        P.arm-platform-profile-label,
        "tag:arm.com,2023:cca_platform#1.0.0"
    )

    item := ae-item::NEW()

    item.addition.cmtype = evidence

    # map platform identifiers to environment
    item.addition.environment = cca_platform_id_to_env(
        P.arm-platform-instance-id-label,
        P.arm-platform-implementation-id-label
    )

    element-list = [ + element-map ]::NEW()

    # map software components to elements
    FOREACH c IN P.arm-platform-sw-components:
        e := element-from-sw-component(c)
        element-list::APPEND(e)

    # map platform config to element
    e := element-from-platform-config(P.arm-platform-config-label)
    element-list::APPEND(e)

    item.addition.element-list = element-list
    item.addition.profile = "tag:arm.com,2025:cca_platform#1.0.0"

>     item.addition.authority[0] = cpak_pub

Author: ```suggestion
    item.addition.authority::APPEND(cpak_pub)
```

Unlike the Platform, Realm Attestation Verification Key Endorsements are not necessary as the key material needed to verify the Realm Evidence is inline in the CCA Token ({{Section 3.2 of -cca-token}}).

### Arm CCA Realm Endorsement Profile

Arm CCA Realm Endorsements are carried in a CoMID within a CoRIM.

The profile attribute in the CoRIM MUST be present and MUST be the URI `tag:arm.com,2025:cca_realm#1.0.0` as shown in {{ex-cca-realm-profile}}.

~~~ cbor-diag
{::include examples/realm-profile.diag}
~~~

> {: #ex-cca-realm-profile title="CoRIM profile for CCA Realm endorsements version 1.0.0" }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{: #ex-cca-realm-profile title="CoRIM profile for CCA Realm Endorsements version 1.0.0" }
```

~~~
{: #ex-cca-realm-refval title="CCA realm identifiers" }

### Evidence Transformations

This section describes the transformations required to map a CCA Realm Token to its equivalent CoRIM internal representation.

{{trans-realm}} shows the complete transformation.

#### Realm Identifiers

> The following function maps the CCA Realm initial measurement onto a CoRIM environment map.

Reviewer: One minor comment. Line 511 is very confusing to the reader, I would re-phrase it to something on the following lines:

The following function maps the Realm Identifier (which in case of Realms is CCA Realm Initial Measurements, please see {{realm-id}} ), onto a CoRIM environment map.

~~~ pseudocode
FUNC cca_realm_id_to_env(
    rim: cca-realm-measurement-type
) -> environment-map {
    env := environment-map::NEW()
    env.class.class-id = tagged-bytes(rim)

    RETURN env
}
~~~

> {: #trans-realm-id title="Transform a CCA Realm Initial Measurement into an Element Map" }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{: #trans-realm-id title="Transform a CCA Realm Identifier into an Element Map" }
```

    RETURN em
}
~~~
{: #trans-rem title="Transform a CCA Realm Extended Measurement Bank into an Element Map" }

#### Realm Personalization Value

The following function maps the CCA realm personalization value claim to a CoRIM element map.
The element identifier is "cca.rpv", and the element claims use the standard raw-values attribute to represent the personalization value as tagged-bytes.

~~~ pseudocode
FUNC element-from-rpv(
    rpv: cca-realm-personalization-value-type
) -> element-map {
    em := element-map::NEW()

    em.element-id = tstr("cca.rpv")

    em.element-claims.raw-values = tagged-bytes(rpv)

    RETURN em
}
~~~
{: #trans-rpv title="Transform a CCA Realm Personalization Value into an Element Map" }

#### Realm Token

The following function maps the CCA realm's claims set to a single CoRIM `ae-item`.

The environment is synthesized from the RIM.
Each REM bank, if present, is mapped to an element-map entry with identifier "cca.rem0".."cca.rem3".
The personalization value, if present, is mapped to an element-map entry with identifier "cca.rpv".

The process uses the functions defined in {{trans-realm-id}}, {{trans-rim}}, {{trans-rem}}, and {{trans-rpv}}.

> The process assumes that the profile of the CCA Realm claims-set is "tag:arm.com,2023:realm#1.0.0".

Reviewer 2: Current realm tag is tag:arm.com,2024:realm#2.0.0

Author: done in [6e5f99e](https://github.com/yogeshbdeshpande/draft-cca-rats-endorsements/pull/25/commits/6e5f99ec9a7883cb30cc87537f4855146c758839)
